The nutritional guidelines provide important information for this
particular scenario.  For each nutrient, there three categories of
information:

	Recommendation: The recommended daily amount is listed
	directly after each nutrient. It is analagous to the familiar
	recommended dietary allowance (RDA), but is adjusted for the
	specific conditions of each scenario.  It can be thought of as
	an optimal value.

	EAR: The Estimated Average Requirement (EAR) is an intake
	level that is estimated to meet the nutritional needs for half
	of the general population. Conversely, this amount might be
	insufficient for as much as half of the population.

	UL: The Tolerable Upper Intake Level (UL) is the largest
	intake level that has no documented ill effects. Consumption
	up to this amount is considered safe; greater amounts may have
	toxic effects.

The EAR and UL have not been determined for all nutrients. They are
general guidelines not adjusted for a specific scenario and are
specified for each nutrient in isolation (i.e., they do not account
for interactions between nutrients, which is valid for some
scenarios).


Information on nutrients

Calories: Calories are not a specific substance but rather a
measurement of the energy potential of the food consumed. Insufficient
caloric intake can leads to starvation, which can cause behavioral
disorders, atrophy, and eventually death. Overconsumption of calories
can lead to obesity, which increases the risk of many ailments, such
as heart disease, diabetes, various cancers, arthritis, asthma, and
can eventually lead to death.

Cholesterol: Cholesterol gives the cells a flexible structure and is
used to create vitamin D and certain hormones. Your body synthesizes
cholesterol so deficiencies are rare, but can interfere with proper
cell function and stunt growth. High cholesterol, specifically high
density lipoproteins (HDL) cholesterol, can clog arteries, leading to
pain, heart attack, stroke, and potentially death.

Sodium: Sodium is used by your body to maintain proper blood pressure
and pH, among other liquid regulatory functions. Insufficient sodium
can cause nausea, headache, confusion, fatigue, muscle weakness,
seizures, coma and death. Excessive sodium can cause lethargy,
weakness, seizures, and comas, and continued high sodium intake can
lead to high blood pressure, which increases the chance of heart
attack and death.

Potassium: Potassium influences a variety of biological functions,
such as electrolyte balance, proper blood pressure, and glucose and
insulin metabolism. Inadequate potassium increases the risk of high
blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, arthritis, cancer, digestive
disorders, and infertility. Excessive potassium can cause low blood
pressure, irregular heartbeat, weakness, and coma.

(Total) Carbohydates: Carbohydrates are primary a source of energy
(calories) and are not considered an essential nutrient. No particular
risk has been proven for low carbohydrate consumption. Likewise,
excessive carbohydate consumption adds risks only in the calories they
provide.

Dietary Fiber: Dietary fiber is an indigestible component of food that
generally helps with digestion, regulates blood sugar, and lowers
cholesterol. Inadequate fiber consumption can impair digestion and
increases the risk of obesity, diabetes, high cholesterol, heart
disease and colon cancer. Overconsumption of fiber can cause bloating.

Protein: Protein is used by your body to produce tissue, and is also a
source of energy (calories). When not enough protein is consumed, your
body will break down your muscles, in a sense cannibalizing
itself. Excess protein consumption can tax the kidneys, increasing the
risk of kidney stones.

Vitamin A: Vitamin A is used in vision, cell growth, and by your
immune system. Insufficient vitamin A can lead to night blindness,
weakened immune system and for children, and increased risk of (total)
blindness and death. Overconsumption of Vitamin a can cause nausea,
headaches, blurred vision, weakness, hair loss, liver damage and can
lead to birth defects.

Vitamin C: Vitamin C is an essential nutrient which strengthens the
immune system and decreases the risk of eye disease, cardiovascular
disease and even cancer. A deficiency of Vitamin C can develop scurvy,
which causes fatigue, bleeding gums, depression and even
death. Overconsumption can cause indigestion and increases the risk of
iron poisoning.

Calcium: Calcium helps strengthen bones, but also plays a role in
blood clotting and muscle function. Calcium deficiency can lead to
rickets (a bone development disorder), increase bleeding and the risk
of osteoporosis. Overconsumption can cause kidney stones, pain in the
abdomen and bones, fatigue, depression, insomnia, and coma.

Iron: Iron plays an important role in metabolism, and is a part of
hemoglobin, a protein in blood. An iron deficiency can lead to anemia
and death. Overconsumption of iron can damage the heart, liver and
other organs, and can cause coma and death.

Thiamin: Thiamin is used in metabolism, allowing your body to convert
food into energy. Thiamin deficiency can lead to diseases such as
beriberi and Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, which in turn cause
digestive problems, mental disorders, nervous system impairment and
even death. Thiamin is not known to be toxic and is not a concern for
overconsumption from dietary sources.

Niacin: Niacin is used in organ function, DNA repair, and helps manage
cholesterol and triglyceride (fat substance) in the blood. Inadequate
niacin consumption can lead to pellagra, a disease that can cause
digestion issues, skin disorders, amnesia, delirium and
death. Overconsumption of niacin can cause facial flushing (redness
and tingling), digestion issues, and can damage the liver.

Vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 is used in metabolism and influence mood and
proper brain function. Insufficient vitamin B6 can cause skin rashes,
sores on the tongue, pink eye, and anemia. There is no risk of
overconsumption from food.

Magnesium: Magnesium is used in metabolism and other chemical
reactions, helps regulate blood sugar and certain minerals, and helps
build teeth and bones. Inadequate magnesium can cause weakness, muscle
cramps, fast heart rate, mood disorders, hallucinations, seizures and
high blood pressure. Properly functioning kidneys eliminate the
possibility of magnesium overdose from food sources.

Folate: Folate is used in proper cell function and lowers the risk of
anemia and heart disease. A deficiency of folate can lead to weakness,
headaches, heart palpitations, mood and behavioral disorders, anemia,
and birth defects. Excessive folate can cause digestive problems,
nausea, loss of appetite, sleep disturbances, depression and
irritability.
